ntly on me the judge a sentence past,
  To the place of execution they brought me to a tree,
  And may God forgive my mistress for she has wronged me.

  All you who come to see me now, hear before I die,
  Don't laugh at my downfall nor smile at my disgrace,
  Believe me I'm quite innocent, I bid this world adieu,
  Farewell my dearest Polly, I die thro' loving you.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 198: From a broadside in Mr. Hailstone's coll., collated with
one _penes me_.]




THE YORKSHIRE VOLUNTEERS' FAREWELL TO THE GOOD FOLKS OF STOCKTON.[199]

BY HERBERT STOCKHORE, PRIVATE IN EARL FAUCONBERG'S YORKSHIRE NORTH
RIDING VOLUNTEERS.


  Tune, "_Push about the Jorum_."

  Ye Stockton lads and lasses too,
    Come listen to my story,
  A dismal tale, because 'tis true,
    I've now to lay before ye;
  We must away, our rout is come,
    We scarce refrain from tears O,
  Shrill shrieks the fife, rough roars the drum,
    March, Yorkshire Volunteers, O.
                        Fal lal lal la ral.

  Yet ere we part, my comrades say,
    Come, Stockhore, you're the poet,
  If ere you'd pen a grateful lay,
    'Tis now the time to show it;
  Such usage kind, in these good towns,
    We've met from age and youth, sirs,
  Accept our heartfelt thanks, and once
    A poet sings the truth, sirs.
                                Fal lal, &c.

  Ye lasses too, of all I see,
    Ye're fairest in the nation;
  Sweet buds of beauty's blooming tree,
    The top of the creation;
  Full many of our lads, I ween,
    Have got good wives and true, sirs,
  I wonder what our leaders mean,
    They have not done so too, sirs.
                                Fal lal, &c.

  Perhaps--but hark! the thund'ring drum
    From love to arms is beating;
  Our country calls, we come, we come,
    Great George's praise repeating;
  He's great and good, long may he here
    Reign, every bliss possessing,
  And long may each true volunteer
    Behold him Britain's blessing.
                                Fal lal, &c.

  Our valiant earl[200] shall lead us on,
    The nearest way to glory,
  Bright honour hails her darling son,
    And fame records his story;
  Dundas commands upon our lists
    The second, tho' on earth, sirs,
  No one his second to, exists,
    For courage, sense, and worth, sirs.
                               Fal lal, &c.

  No venal muse before your view,
    Next sets a veteran bold, sirs,
  The praise to merit justly due,
    From Paul she cannot hold, sirs;
  His valour oft has bore the test,
    In war he's brisk and handy;
  His private virtues stand confest,
    In short, he's quite the dandy.
                               Fal lal, &c.

  Brave Mackarall heads his grenadiers,
    They're just the lads to do it,
  And should the dons or lank Monsieurs
    Come here, he'll make them rue it.
  He'll roar his thunder, make them flee,
    With a row, row, row, row, rara,
  And do them o'er by land,--at sea,
    As Rodney did Langara.[201]

  Young Thompson and his lads so light
    Of foot, with hearts of steel, O,
  His country's cause shall nobly fight,
    And make her foes to feel, O,
  For should the frog-fed sons of Gaul,
    Come capering à la Francois,
  "My lads," said he, "we'll teach them all
    The light-bob country dance, A."
                               Fal lal, &c.

  Our leaders all so brave and bold,
    Shou'd I in verse recite, A,
  A baggage waggon wou'd not hold
    The songs that I cou'd write, A:
  Their deeds so great, their words so mild,
    O take our worst commander,
  And to him Cæsar was a child,
    And so was Alexander.
                               Fal lal, &c.

  Such men as these we'll follow thro'
    The world, and brave all danger;
  Each volunteer is firm and true,
    His heart's to fear a stranger;
  Good folks farewell, God bless the king,
    With angels centry o'er him;
  Now, hark! to Winchester, we'll sing,
    And push about the jorum.
                               Fal lal lal la ral.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 199: Called in the Rox. coll., "Hark to Winchester; or, The
Yorkshire Volunteers, &c."]

[Footnote 200: Henry, last earl Fauconberg, only son of Thomas 1st earl.
He was lord lieutenant and custos rotulorum of the North Riding of
Yorkshire, and Lord of the Bedchamber to George III; died 23 March,
1802, and was buried at Coxwold.]

[Footnote 201: On the 16 Jan. 1780, admiral Rodney met a Spanish
squadron off Cape St. Vincent, under the command of admiral Don Juan du
Langara, and completely defeated it; capturing the Phoenix, of 80
guns, bearing the flag of the admiral, the Monarca, Princessa, and
Diligenta, each of 70 guns. The St. Domingo, of 70 guns, blown up; and
the San Julian and San Eugenio, of 70 guns, surrendered: while the
British had the trifling loss of only 32 men killed and 120 wounded.
Both houses of parliament voted Rodney thanks for his conduct upon the
occasion, and the freedom of the city of London was presented him in a
gold box valued at 100 guineas. Lord Rodney, K.B., died 24 May, 1792.]




FRAGMENT OF THE HAGMENA SONG.[202]


As sung at Richmond, Yorkshire, on the eve of the New-Year, by the
Corporation Pinder.

  To-night it is the New-year's night, to morrow is the day,
  And we are come for our right, and for our ray,[203]
  As we used to do in old king Henry's day.
                Sing, fellows, sing, Hagman-heigh.

  If you go to the bacon-flick, cut me a good bit;
  Cut, cut and low, beware of your maw;
  Cut, cut and round, beware of your thumb,
  That me and my merry men may have some.
                Sing, fellows, sing, Hagman-heigh.

  If you go to the black-ark, bring me X mark;
  Ten mark, ten pound, throw it down upon the ground,
  That me and my merry men may have some.
                Sing, fellows, sing, Hagman-heigh.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 202: The custom of singing Hagmena songs is observed in
different parts of the north of England, and in Scotland. The origin of
the term is a matter of dispute. Some derive it from "au guy l'an
neuf," _to the misletoe this new year_; others suppose the term to be a
corruption of hagia mênê, _the holy month_. The Hagmena songs
are sometimes sung on Christmas Eve, and sometimes, as at Richmond, on
the eve of the new year. See BRAND'S _Popular Antiquities_.]

[Footnote 203: "Ray, ree, or rey, a Portuguese coin, 100 of which are
equal to sixpence English."--CLARKSON'S _Richmond_.]




THE FAIR.[204]


  Ye loit'ring minnits faster flee,
  Ye're all ower slaw behawf for me,
    That wait impatient for the moornin';
  To-moorn's the lang, lang wish'd for fair,
  Ah'll try te shine the fooremust there,
    Mysen i' finest cleeas adoornin',
                        Te grace the day.

  Ah'll put mah best white stockings on,
  An' pair o' new cawf-leather shoon,
    My cleean-wesh'd goon o' printed cotton;
  Aboot my neck a muslin shawl,
  A new silk hankercher ower all,
    Wi' sike a careless air ah'll put on,
                        Ah'll shine that day.

  My partner Ned, ah knaw, thinks he,
  "He'll mak' his sen secure o' me,"
    He's ofens sed he'd treeat me rarely;
  Bud ah sal think ov other fun,
  Ah'll aim for sum rich farmer's son,
    An' cheeat our simple Neddy fairly,
                        Sea sly that day.

  Why mud ah nut succeed as weel,
  An' get a man full oot genteel,
    As awd John Darby's dowghter Nelly;
  Ah think mysen as good as she,
  She can't mak' cheese or spin like me,
    That's mare 'an beauty, let me tell ye,
                        On onny day.

  Then hey! for spoorts an' puppy shows,
  An' temptin' spice-stalls, rang'd i' rows,
    An' danglin' dolls, by t' necks all hangin',
  An' thoosand other pratty seeghts,
  An' lasses, trail'd alang the streets,
    Wi' lads, te t' yal-house gangin',
                              Te drink that day.

  Let's leeak at t' winder,--ah can see 't,
  It seeams as tho' 'twas growin' leeght,
    The cloods wi' early rays adoornin',
  Ye loit'ring minnits faster flee,
  Ye're all ower slaw' behawf for me
    'At wait impatient for the moornin',
                              O' sike a day.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 204: From _A Garland of New Songs_, without printer's name.]




THE YORKSHIRE LAD IN LONDON.


  When I left father and mother, sister and brother,
    They all cried you'll surely be undone;
  For resolved was I my fortune to try,
    And just take a trip to London--
  Cry'd my father, "When there, dont curse and swear
    As the Londoners do if they teaze ye,
  But your passion keep down as well as you can,
    And say--Jemmy Johnson squeeze me."

  "Lord, father, do you take me for a fool,
    That was in Yorkshire born and bred, man;
  I'm not to be done by the London chaps,
    As long as I've eyes in my head, man;
  And should they think for to go to contrive
    With their cunning and tricks to tease me,
  I, as well as they, know how many beans make five
    If I dont then--Jemmy Johnson squeeze me."

  I went to the play, I went to the park, saw the king,
    To see all the grand sights I were willing,
  But when I came at night to count o'er my brass,
    Egad I found I'd took two bad shillings.
  "If the Yorkshire lads were to know it," says I,
    "Oh dear how they would teaze me."
  But some kind friend shall have them again,
    If they dont, why--Jemmy Johnson squeeze me.

  A fine lady came up, half drunk in the street,
    Thinking for me to nicely trepan, sir;
  For you see I being drest in my best,
    She called me a handsome young man, sir;
  "And sir, if along with me you'll go," says she,
    "I think as how I should so please ye."
  So I went--and I gave her the two bad shillings,
    If I didn't--Jemmy Johnson squeeze me.

  Then a stranger came up, says he, "My dear friend,
    I'm glad in London to meet you;
  Do you know me?" says he--says I, "Very well,
    Come to the public house and I'll treat you."
  So I called for the liquor--got half drunk,
    Where the chap he thought to ease me,
  But I walked me away, left him the reckoning to pay,
    If I didn't--Jemmy Johnson squeeze me.

  Then another chap called me on the other side,
    Says he, "Look, I've found a gold ring, sir,
  If you'll ten shillings give me, yours it shall be."
    "Oh!" says I, "'tis a grand looking thing, sir,
  But I tell you what, my sweet London chap,
    Dont think of my money to ease me,
  For a Yorkshire lad knows brass from gold,
    If he don't--then Jemmy Johnson squeeze me."

  I was tired of their tricks, says I, "I'll go home,
    While all's right, tight, and comely;
  For a rolling stone gathers no moss,
    And home is home if it's ever so homely."
  But I made 'em remember 'for I left town,
    They thought how it did please me,
  That the Yorkshire lad was not to be had,
    If he was--Jemmy Johnson squeeze me.




THE TRYAL OF PATIENCE.[205]


Being a relation of a widow in Yorkshire, who, having buried her
husband, and left seven small children, was reduced to great poverty,
and turned out of house and home; then going to her husband's brother,
being a rich man, in hopes of finding relief, but instead thereof he
threatened them with cruelty. With an account of a lady's love at the
greatest time of her distress.

  To the tune of "_In Summer Time_."

  A loving couple in Yorkshire,
    They having seven children small,
  When poverty was so severe,
    They had for them no food at all.

  As I the naked truth may speak,
    Their father was in grief and woe,
  Three years he lay both sick and weak,
    This was enough to bring them low.

  They sold their cattle, corn, and hay,
    With other goods they parted free,
  Till all they had was made away,
    In this their sad extremity.

  After the term of three long years,
    Which he thus languishing did lye,
  Upon his bed, with brinish tears,
    He said, "Farewell, here now I dye."

  A cruel landlord the next day,
    Turn'd her and children out of door,
  Where in a field all night they lay;
    This griev'd the widow's heart full sore.

  Poor soul, she was in sad distress.
    Full seven children at her feet,
  With hunger, cold and comfortless,
    And not one bit of bread to eat.

  Her children cry'd to her alone;
    "O, give us food, mother," they said;
  'Twould have broke a heart of stone,
    To hear the piteous moan they made.

  With weeping tears she did reply,
    "My heart is overwhelm'd with grief;
  To your rich uncle we will hye,
    And see if he will yield relief.

  "He told your father thus in love,
    Before this world he bid adieu,
  That he in tenderness would prove
    A brother and a father too."

  With cheerfulness they did repair,
    Unto their uncle's house that night,
  And they no sooner were come there,
    But all their hopes were blasted quite.

  As soon as he did them behold,
    He said to her, "What make you here?
  Begone, or else the whipping post,
    Shall surely happen to your share."

  He threatened her with this abuse,
    Likewise with greater villany,
  He vow'd his dog he would let loose,
    If that she did his patience try.

  In wrath he spurn'd them from his door,
    Saying they should not there abide;
  Her children they were frighten'd sore,
    She likewise wrung her hands and cry'd.

  "O here we will not tarry long,
    Although we are in deep distress;
  Dear brother, pray now do not wrong
    The widow and the fatherless."

  Tears from their eyes in showers did flow,
    For there they see they might not stay;
  Their hearts were fill'd with grief and woe,
    As from his house they took their way.

  The mother was with grief opprest,
    The children in a woful plight;
  "We have no home nor place of rest,
    Where shall we lay our heads this night?"

  As she did wander on the way,
    Alas! her very heart did bleed;
  "Good Lord, raise me some friend, I pray,
    To help us in this time of need."

  Her prayer was heard to heaven high,
    For she no sooner this had said,
  But a young lady riding by,
    Did hear the piteous moan she made.

  And call'd her to her coach with speed,
    Giving her ten good guineas there,
  In order for her present need,
    And bid her to her house repair.

  "A farm of twenty pounds a year,
    I do declare I have in store,
  And I will give thee title clear,
    To you and yours for evermore."

  The lady bid her cease to mourn,
    "For ever happy may you be;"
  Ten thousand thanks she did return
    For this her generosity.

  No tongue is able to express
    How joy and comforts did increase,
  For now the farm they do possess,
    And live in plenty, joy, and peace.

  This brother of malicious spite,
    Who would not pity her poor case,
  All that he had was blasted quite
    Within a very little space.

  God's wrath and vengeance here we see,
    Was just for his sad cruel pride;
  He was reduc'd to poverty,
    Likewise upon a dunghill dy'd.

  For having then no home nor friend.
    That would this cruel wretch receive,
  He made a miserable end,
    When he, alas! this life did leave.

  Rich men, relieve the poor, I pray,
    Who does to you for succour cry,
  Lest you be brought as low as they,
    By making God your enemy.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 205: From a broadside in the Rox. Coll., black letter. Printed
for P. Brooksby, at the Golden Ball in Pye Corner.]




THE BEGGAR'S BRIDGE.

BY MRS. GEORGE DAWSON.


  They talk of dales and hills in Wales,
      As the loveliest in our isle;
  But the Yorkshire dells and rocky fells,
  Where the bright sun beams on the sparkling streams,
      Are all forgot the while.

  You may roam for hours 'mid sweet spring flowers,
      With a gurgling "beck" beneath,
  While the rustling breeze just parts the trees,
  And reveals the sweep of the wild woods deep,
      Shut in the darkling heath.

  You may hear the note of the blackbird float,
      From the top of each tall ash tree,
  When he pours his song each evening long;
  For in "true love" tales such romantic dales,
      Must needs abundant be.

  The dalesmen say that their light archway
      Is due to an Egton[206] man,
  Whose love was tried by a whelming tide;
  I heard the tale in its native vale,
      And thus the legend ran:--

    "Why lingers my lov'd one? Oh! why does he roam
    On the last winter's evening that hails him at home?
    He promised to see me once more ere he went,
    But the long rays of gloaming all lonely I've spent:
    The stones at the fording no longer I see;
    Ah! the darkness of night has concealed them from me."

    The maiden of Glaisdale sat lonely at eve,
    And the cold stormy night saw her hopelessly grieve;
    But when she looked forth from her casement at morn,
    The maiden of Glaisdale was truly forlorn!
    For the stones were engulphed where she looked for them last
    By the deep swollen Esk, that rolled rapidly past;
    And vainly she strove with her tear-bedimmed eye,
    The pathway she gazed on last night to descry.

    Her lover had come to the brink of the tide,
    And to stem its swift current repeatedly tried;
    But the rough whirling eddy still swept him ashore,
    And relentlessly bade him attempt it no more.
    Exhausted he climbed the steep side of the brae,
    And looked up the dale ere he turned him away;
    Ah! from her far window a light flickered dim,
    And he knew she was faithfully watching for him.

  "I go to seek my fortune, love,
    In a far, far distant land;
  And without thy parting blessing, love,
    I am forced to quit the strand.

  "But over Arncliffe's brow, my love,
    I see thy twinkling light;
  And when deeper waters part us, love,
    'Twill be my beacon bright.

  "If fortune ever favour me,
    St. Hilda! hear my vow!
  No lover again in my native plain,
    Shall be thwarted as I am now.

  "One day I'll come to claim my bride,
    As a worthy and wealthy man!
  And my well earned gold shall raise a bridge
    Across this torrent's span."

    The rover came back from a far distant land,
    And he claimed of the maiden her long-promised hand;
    But he built, ere he won her, the bridge of his vow,
    And the lovers of Egton pass over it now.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 206: "On first entering the village of Egton (near Whitby),
instead of proceeding forward, take the road through a gate to the
right, which leads past the church of Limber Hill, a winding and steep
descent, which affords, from several points, fine views of Eskdale and
Glaisdale, and at the foot of which the Beggar's Bridge, with its
elegant single arch, bestrides the river Esk."--REED'S _Guide to
Whitby_.]




THE BANKS O' MORTON O' SWALE.[207]


  As autumn pour'd her teern o' good,
      And woe had ceased to wail,
  Ah wander'd forth hard by a woode,
      Upon the banks o' Swale.

  And there ah spied a lovely nymph
      Yan that neean could but hail,
  Ah sed, "Sweet lass, come take e trip
      Alang the banks o' Swale."

  Wi' looks as sweet as angels wear,
      She soon was in the vale,
  And ah was walking by my fair
      Upon the banks o' Swale.

  But ah sall neear forget that night,
      Whale life or memory fail,
  The hours they pass'd wi' syke delight,
      Upon the banks o' Swale.

  They swifter flew than did the stream,
      That murmur'd en the dale,
  For mah enjoyment was extreme
      Upon the banks o' Swale.

  Ah lov'd that lass as meh life,
      Ah felt to wish her weal,
  Ah ask'd her to become my wife
      Upon the banks o' Swale.

  Wi' looks bespeaking mind intent
      On what ah ardent tell,
  E' vain ah woo'd her to consent
      Upon the banks o' Swale.

  Ah kiss'd, ah press'd her to gi way
      But all of no availe,
  She had a wooer far away
      Fra the sweet banks o' Swale.

  A drinking ranting wretch wes hee,
      As ever was out o' hell,
  She took his hand and spurned me
      Far fra the banks o' Swale.

  But ah! when years had roll'd away
      Ah met a form full frail,
  She recognised me that day
      As fra the banks o' Swale.

  Said ah full low, "Can this be she,
      This thing of woe and wail,
  That ah yance kiss'd delightfully
      Upon the banks o' Swale?"

  O, heavens it was the very one
      Ah met e' that sweet vale,
  But ah the evary charm was gone,
      Ah saw ont' banks o' Swale.

  Wi' sorrow stamp'd on her brow
      She did her mind unveil,
  She told me all she had pass'd thro'
      Since on the banks o' Swale.

  But O her history how sad,
      To sad for me to tell,
  T'wad mak e' heart o' stane to bleed,
      Ah mourn ye banks o' Swale.

  Then ye nymphs that mak sea free
      Wi' laddies that love ale,
  Ah think of her that went wi' me
      Upon the banks o' Swale.

  And spurn syke wooers that wad woo
      Ye to become their wife,
  For knaw 'e this, if ye do
      Ye 'd ruined be for life.[208]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 207: A pleasant straggling village, in the parish of Ainderby
Steeple, near North Allerton, on the east bank of the Swale. Lambard,
Bede, and other early writers, inform us that Paulinus, the first
archbishop of York, baptized 10,000 persons in this river in one
day,--"By cause at that tyme theare weare no churches or oratories yet
buylt."]

[Footnote 208: Communicated by Mr. Wm. Todd, of Keckmondwike, author of
"T' Country Chap," &c.]




THE CHASE OF THE BLACK FOX.


This ballad, communicated by Mr. Wm. Grainge,[209] of Minskip, has never
been printed, and is little known. The tradition on which it is founded
is yet related by old people in the midland parts of Yorkshire, and the
incidents recited in the narrative are very nearly those related by the
tongue of "hoary eld."

  Listen, Yorkshire gentlemen,
    Unto the tale I tell,
  'Tis of a strange adventure
    That once a lord befel,

  Who took his way with horse and hound,
    With huntsman and with horn,
  To chase the wily fox I ween,
    One autumn's merry morn.

  Long did they seek the cunning one,
    And roamed with labour vain,
  Through many a thorny thicket,
    O'er many a woody plain;

  No traces of sly reynard,
    Their closest search can find,
  There is no track upon the ground,
    No scent upon the wind.

  The hunters are impatient all,
    The huntsman swears, "In vain
  We've beaten round, we've beaten square,
    No fox is on the plain.

  "We might as well call off the hounds
    And come another day,
  Old N--k must have been hunting here
    And driven them away."

  "If we had caught him in the act,"
    The angry lord replies,
  "We would have chased him home again,
    And made his brush our prize:

  "Or if he would but come to day,
    We'd give him such a run,
  As he ne'er had in all his life,
    O, 'twould be noble fun!"

  So spake the lord and huntsman,
    When to their great surprise,
  A noble fox unkenelled
    Before their wondering eyes,

  As black as any raven,
    As glossy and as bright,
  Save that his brush--no hunter's prize,
    Is tipp'd with shining white.

  The huntsman wakes from wonder,
    And gives a cheering blast,
  The hounds reply in thunder,
    The hunters follow fast.

  Away they go a gallant band,
    Ye would have thought they flew;
  Their horses were the fleetest
    That Yorkshire ever knew.

  O'er many a lofty fence they pass,
    O'er many a gate and stile,
  The sable one is leading them
    Many a dreary mile.

  And always full before their eyes,
    Nor far before the hound,
  But all their speed to catch him
    Is ever fruitless found.

  The hunters now are tiring,
    Or lagging far behind,
  But yet the fox is running
    As merrily as the wind.

  The staunchest hounds are wearied
    With the fruitless chase,
  The angry lord and huntsman
    Alone maintain the race.

  When at the sinking of the day
    They gain'd a river's side,
  Without a moment's stop or stay
    The fox takes to the tide.

  Here stop the lord and huntsman,
    Their courage is no more,
  They dare not trust their horses
    Amidst the waves of Yore.

  Both hound, and horse, and hunters,
    Are fairly tired and done,
  For since the game was started,
    Full three score miles they'd run.

  While light as cork on water
    The fox was floating on,
  You could not tell by seeing him,
    A furlong he had run.

  He swam into the middle,
    Then turned him round about,
  And by the hunters on the bank
    Was heard to laugh and shout.

  "Ho! ho! ye gallant hunters!
    When must I come again?
  For never shall ye want a fox,
    To chase along the plain.

  "And when your need is greatest,
    But call upon my name,
  And I will come--and you shall have
    The best of sport and game."

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 209: Author of the "Vale of Mowbray," &c: to whom I am
indebted for the "Collingham Ghost," and "The Widow's Lament."]




MISS BAILEY'S GHOST.[210]


  A captain bold in Halifax, who dwelt in country quarters
  Seduced a maid who hang'd herself one morning in her garters;
  His wicked conscience smited him, he lost his stomach daily,
  He took to drinking ratafia, and thought upon miss Bailey.
          Oh miss Bailey! unfortunate miss Bailey.

  One night, betimes, he went to rest, for he had caught a fever,
  Says he, "I am a handsome man, but I'm a gay deceiver."
  His candle just at twelve o'clock began to burn quite palely,
  A ghost stepp'd up to his bed-side and said, "Behold miss Bailey!"
          Oh miss Bailey! unfortunate miss Bailey!

  "Avaunt, miss Bailey," then he cried, "your face looks white and mealy."
  "Dear captain Smith," the ghost replied, "you've used me ungenteely;
  The crowner's 'quest goes hard with me, because I've acted frailly,
  And Parson Biggs won't bury me, though I am dead miss Bailey."
          Oh miss Bailey! unfortunate miss Bailey!

  "Dear corpse," said he, "since you and I, accounts must once for all
     close,
  I've got a one pound note in my regimental small clothes;
  'Twill bribe the sexton for your grave."--The ghost then vanish'd gaily,
  Crying, "Bless you, wicked captain Smith, remember poor miss Bailey."
          Oh miss Bailey! unfortunate miss Bailey.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 210: This song first appeared, in 1805, in Colman's "Love
laughs at Locksmiths." See a Latin version of this song by the Rev. G.
H. Glasse, in Gent. Mag. for Aug. 1805.]




THE TWO YORKSHIRE LOVERS.[211]


    To the Tune of "_Willy_."

  When Willy once he stayed,
  To fetch home a lamb that straied,
      Under a hill-side,
      A bonny lasse he spide,
  Of whom he was well apaied.

  Her cheeks like cherries growing,
  Her lips like rose-buds blowing;
      Her eyes black and cleare,
      As the sloe upon the breere,
  Or the worme in the hedge lies glowing.

  Her waist so small and slender,
  Her skin so soft and tender,
      He sigh'd and he said
      That she was a fair maid,
  And his love to her he'd render.

  The wind did seem to play
  With her tresses as she lay;
      Betwixt hope and feare,
      He was in despaire,
  To give her the time of the day.

  Yet resolv'd to court this minion,
  There stept in a new opinion;
      This timorous clowne
      Thought Phoebe had come down
  To speake with her loved Endimion.

  His errand quite forgotten,
  He lean'd to a tree was rotten;
      He swore by the masse,
      There was never such a lasse!
  His heart with a shaft was shotten.

  Then boldly he stept unto her,
  His eyes shot affection through her;
      He cast away fears,
      And pricking up his ears,
  Thus Willy began to wooe her.

  "Good day," quoth he, "my honny!
  Thou dearer to me than money;
      I'le lose my little lambe,
      And gladly give the damme,
  To be lov'd by a lasse so bonny.

  "Now list to what I'le tell thee,
  There's none in shape doth excell thee,
      So thou wilt wed me,
      None happier than thee;
  For better day ere befell me.

  "Of nuts I'le give thee plenty,
  And red side apples twenty;
      My butter I'le leese,
      To make thee summer cheese,
  And creame to make egge-pies dainty.

  "My lambs new gowns shall bear thee,
  No daylockes shall ere come near thee;
      The poultry of the towne
      Shall cackle without downe,
  Ere I'le want a soft bed to cheer thee.

  "My bagpipes mirth shall make thee,
  Each morn with a song I'le wake thee;
      At night I'le not faile
      To tell a merry tale,
  And make thy sad thoughts forsake thee."


  THE SECOND PART.

  "White lillies shall pave the closes,
  Each brier shall blush with roses;
      The gross green and sweet,
      Shall kiss thy tender feet,
  And the medows shall yield thee posies.

  "With shady bowers set ore thee,
  With thousand contents I'le store thee;
      While by some clear brooke,
      With my little dog and hooke,
  I'le bring my fine ewes before thee."

  While thus he was close set at her,
  Quoth she, "I suspect the matter,
      For an houres sport;
      Like the false alluring court,
  The country has learned to flatter.

  "Therefore leave off thy wooing;
  I love not such short doing,
      And come unto the matter;
      I love not for to flatter,
  True affection hates long suing.

  "But if your love will prove steady,
  Till Hymen had made him ready,
      Then surfeit all night
      In a captive maids delight,
  Which yet but ayre hath fed ye."

  Quoth he, "I love none above thee,
  For chastity I prove thee;
      As constant I'le prove,
      As the mate unto the dove,
  Nay, though thou wert dead, I'le love thee!

  "And all contents I'le give thee,
  So that thou wilt live with me;
      My life and all I'le loose,
      Ere I my love abuse,
  And all my rich kith unto me."

  As Willy thus was talking,
  The shepherd's eyes were walking;
      Each legge and each limbe,
      So tricked, so trim,
  She thought it no time of balking.

  Her heart with love was taken,
  God Cupid did her awaken;
      And cast a cheerfull eye,
      Upon him by and by,
  To show he was not forsaken.

  His lips to hers he laid,
  She never a word gain-said;
      Thus joyning their hands,
      They tyed the nuptiall bands,
  Which never till death decai'd.

  Such happy joy God send me,
  When I to wed intend me;
      And to each faithfull lover,
      Where they be one or other,
  I heartily commend thee.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 211: From a broadside in the Rox. Coll., black letter. London,
printed for John Wright.]




NATTERIN NAN.

BE A YORKSHUR LIKENASS TAKER.[212]


  Noa daht ye'll all ev eard abaht
    T' Appolloa Belvidere,
  A statty, thowt be sum ta be
    Fro' ivvery failin tlear.

  All reyt an streyt i' mak and shap,
    A mould for t'race o' men,
  A dahnreyt, upreyt, beng-up chap,
    Nut mitch unlike mesen.

  Nah, thaw ye knaw he's nowt bud stoan,
    He lewks sa grand an big,
  That little durst ya pool his noas,
    Ur lug his twisted wig.

  Pratly, reyt pratly, ovver t'floor,
    A tep e toas ye walk,
  An hod yur breeath for varry awe,
    An whisper when ya tauk.

  There's that abaht him, bud I knaw'nt
    Nut reytly hah ta say't,
  That maks ya feel as small as thieves
    Anent a magistrate.

  Yee've seen that dolt o'mucky tlay,
    O't face o' Pudsa Doas,
  T'owd madlin 's worn it all his life,
    An fancied it a noas.

  Yond props is like a pair o' tengs
    O' Sykes's, yet by t' megs,
  When he wur souber as a judge,
    A've eard him call em legs.

  So Heaven be praised for self-consate,
    Withaht it ah sud say
  Wee'se hate wursen we all wur meet
    For ivver an a day.

  When sitch like lewks at t' marble God
    Egoy! ha wide they gape,
  An wunder which they favver t'moast,
    A boggard or an ape.

  An sum we envy and we spite
    Get fi